---
layout: post
title: 14 things startup life in Kampala taught me
description: "My 2015, startup"
tags: [ startup,life ,code]
comments: true
---
Please note this article was written while listening to Eddy Kenzo and Kendrick Lamar

##### 1 This is it. 

Do stuff that makes you happy and fulfiled. The only moment you can control is now , not tomorrow or yesterday(stolen from a beer ad in Uganda)

##### 2 Don't allow yourself to be pushed around.

You matter and so does your voice. People not being comfortable with that is honestly not your problem.

##### 3 Keep learning

In Kampala alot of folk stop learning as soon they walk of out of university(this applies to both who study at home and abroad) . People are always suprised to see me with calculus books(till today) , signing up for coursera courses on  philosophy , programming . Learning is a way of understanding or comprending the world around us. With a better understanding we can actually solve our problems.

##### 4 Strike a balance between reality and your dreams. 

Bills need to get paid , enough said.

##### 5 Read content longer than tweets(books) , spend less time on the internet.

Buy a good book from aristoc (its about 25000 Uganda shillings ) , i'm pretty sure your partying budget is less than this. One book a month means 12 a year .

##### 6 Exercise

This surprisingly increases your producitivity and makes you a happier person.  

##### 7 Ask for what you want.

The answer to this can be no and it can also be yes. Take a chance :)

##### 8 Talk more to people offline, take more public transport. 

All problems are offline and not online.

##### 9 Dont become a person who kungu-fus with their mouth rather than hands (stolen from Nigeria ). 

In the tech startup scene in Kampala , there's alot of talkers and few are afraid to get their hands dirty. The founder of this Ugandan start up(non tech) knows how to get her hands dirty offline and online (FitcliqueAfrica)

##### 10 Stop worrying about how much you matter. 

There's over 7 billion people in the world , over 32 million in Uganda. If we looked up from space you honestly couldn't see me.

##### 11 Uganda is full of problems and code won't solve a larger number of them. 

Code doesn't solve problems but thinking does. Computer science aims to teach thinking and writing code is the medium used. Many programmers forget the thinking bit.

##### 12 The days are long but the years are short(stolen from Sam Altman's blog ). 

Its been one and half years since I joined the startup scene in Kampala. Writing my first solo django application at the start of last year to joining Google this july .

##### 13 Be Kind to everyone you meet.

People will forget what you said but they will never forget how you made them feel (stolen from Maya Angelou)


##### 14 Make more hard decisions.

Makinf decisions is like an olympic sport. The more your practice at it the better you become at it. and one day you can win gold.

##### 15 Teams win premeirship and not individuals.

I happen to randomly read this on sports blog. Egos need to be put side , talents brought together and the game played as hard as possible.

