---
layout: post
title: My 2014 books , videos , intitatives
description: "My 2014 books , videos , intitatives"
tags: [ code,life ]
comments: true
---




I can't use my facebook to judge what my year has been like however I can use my books , videos, and initiatives to show what my year has been like . 
Here's a list of my books with lessons from the most recent ones 

#Books about building software

##Pragmatic programmer

A few  of the lessons I learned from this book which I think made an impact on last half of my year

* Care about your work.To grow in any field you have to care about your work by  doing it the best way possible

* Don't live with broken windows.Bad designs ,badly written works need to be fixed as so as possible
* You can't force people to change.True that!! however you can show people the future and hope they follow

* Bad excuses are bad excuses.This is relation to missing deadlines. Rather than excuses  create options , say what can be done.

* Invest in your knowledge.Make learning a regular habit is important. That means reading books or picking a new programming language


##Refactoring improving design of the existing code
This the first book that opened my eyes to design and testing in software development and its key importance to the field. I have an electrical engineering degree , design and testing are key to this field because people can die if any of the two is not done right. Besides people dying to build complex stuff one needs good design. Translate the last two concepts to software . All code I wrote before this book is currently under "refactor" mode

##Modern operating system
With the certain events of the year I have I noticed I have knowledge gaps in my understanding of hardware , software and how the two interact. This is of key importance because how does one move forward with something without understanding its past or where it comes from. Well this book takes me to the basics of operating system and how it interact with computer hardware which is the processors , memory , disks , tapes, I/O Devices. Much  as I can't understand everything , I'll understand the little I know well. Reading of this book is paying off in many ways , a deep understanding of any operating system is like understanding one's playground , the better you know the better you play.


##Why program fails?
I noticed no teaches anyone how to debug software. People usually dive into debugging software with no technique and end wasting a lot of their time. I believe this an area worth exploring and its beautiful introduced in this book. My workmates think I'm a natural at debugging software however I'm  not , I read a book about it.

##Python and algorithms

##Programming C#

##Code: The hidden language of computer hardware and software

##Cracking the code interview

#Other books

##The everything store jeff bezo and the age of amazon
Jeff Bezo is trying to sell everything to everyone and basically become the next Walmart  on the internet.Pick up this book to find out how.

##The hard thing about hard things.

##Innovators dilemma

##Outliers

##Malcom X biography

Biggest lesson I picked up from this book is oppression suffocates the mind however once the mind is freed of that oppression , the opportunities for the mind are limitless.

##Arrow of God

African literature is much more clear to me than it was in high school.  I'm intrigued by religion and power themes  , the colonized and the colonists in this book. I would like to see another book that looks at the evolution of those themes into today's Africa.

##Light on yoga

"It is through the alignment of the body that I discovered the alignment of my mind, self, and intelligence".
Made it through a quarter of the yoga moves in this book. I work better , sleep better , eat better and jog better.

#Videos of 2014

##The computer revolution has happened yet
This video opened me up to the importance of learning, origins of object oriented programming and the un explored territory of software. Alan Kay back when this video was shoot said software engineering is progressing inversely to moores law(the reason for object oriented programming). The point that really amazed me was how he connected micro biology with object oriented concepts. These object oriented concepts  have resulted in the evolution of creatures to complex creatures such human beings.

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/oKg1hTOQXoY" frameborder="0" > </iframe>

##Linus Torvalds on git
" I will, in fact, claim that the difference between a bad programmer and a good one is whether he considers his code or his data structures more important. Bad programmers worry about the code. Good programmers worry about data structures and their relationships." Linus Torvalds

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/4XpnKHJAok8" frameborder="0" > </iframe>

##You and your research
``Knowledge and productivity are like compound interest.'' Given two people of approximately the same ability and one person who works ten percent more than the other, the latter will more than twice out produce the former. The more you know, the more you learn; the more you learn, the more you can do; the more you can do, the more the opportunity - it is very much like compound interest. I don't want to give you a rate, but it is a very high rate. Given two people with exactly the same ability, the one person who manages day in and day out to get in one more hour of thinking will be tremendously more productive over a lifetime.

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/a1zDuOPkMSw" frameborder="0" > </iframe>

The myth of the genius programmer
"Put yourself out there"

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0SARbwvhupQ" frameborder="0" > </iframe>



Initiatives 2014
